---
layout: post
title: 2019 AIED Workshop on Intelligent Textbooks
---

First Workshop on Intelligent Textbooks
@ The 20th International Conference on Artificial Intelligence in Education (AIED’2019)

We are happy to announce that we will be organizing a full-day workshop at AIED 2019. The date of the workshop is June 25, 2019. Details on the workshop will be updated soon. AIED 2019 will be held in Chicago, IL, USA during June 25-29, 2019.  See [here](https://caed-lab.com/aied2019/index.html).

--------------------------- WORKSHOP DESCRIPTION -------------------------

Textbooks have evolved over the last several decades in many aspects. Most textbooks can be 
accessed online, many of them freely. They often come with libraries of supplementary educational 
resources or online educational services built on top of them. As a result of these enrichments, 
new research challenges and opportunities emerge that call for the application of AIEd methods 
to enhance digital textbooks and learners’ interaction with them. Therefore, we ask: How to 
facilitate the access to textbooks and improve the reading process? What can be extracted from 
textbook content and data-mined from the logs of students interacting with it? This workshop seeks 
research contributions addressing these and other research questions related to the idea of 
intelligent textbooks. It aims at bringing together researchers working on different aspects of 
learning technologies to establish intelligent textbooks as a new, interdisciplinary research field.

--------------------------- TOPICS OF INTEREST --------------------------- 

The workshop themes include but are not limited to:

* Modelling and representation of textbooks: examining the prerequisite and semantic structure of 
textbooks to enhance their readability;

* Analysis and mining of textbook usage logs: analyzing the patterns of learners’ use of textbooks 
to obtain insights on learning and the pedagogical value of textbook content;

* Collaborative technologies: building and deploying social components of digital textbooks that 
enable learners to interact with not only content but other learners;

* Generation, manipulation, and presentation: exploring and testing different formats and forms of 
textbook content to find the most effective means of presenting different knowledge;

* Assessment and personalization: developing methods that can generate assessments and enhance 
textbooks with adaptive support to meet the needs of every learner using the textbook;

* Content curation and enrichment: sorting through external resources on the web and finding the 
relevant resources to augment the textbook and provide additional information for learners;   

* Knowledge visualization: augmenting textbooks with concept maps, open learner models and other 
knowledge-rich extensions;

* Smart interactive content: extending online textbooks with various kinds of smart interactive 
content to improve learning, engagement, learned modeling, and personalization;

* Intelligent information retrieval and question-answering for digital textbooks.


--------------------------- IMPORTANT DATES ------------------------------ 

Paper submission:  May 10, 2019

Notification of acceptance: May 25, 2019

Final version of accepted papers: June 10, 2019

--------------------------- PAPER SUBMISSION -----------------------------
                         
Accepted papers will be presented either orally or in a poster session and included in the workshop proceedings. 
At this point we invite full (up to 12 pages) and short (up to 4 pages) paper submissions.
Submissions should follow the Springer format.
See [here](https://www.springer.com/computer/lncs?SGWID=0-164-6-793341-0) for details.
Submission should be made in pdf format through the EasyChair system [here](https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=intelligenttextbooks).
Submissions will be reviewed by members of the workshop program committee.

--------------------------- TENTATIVE SCHEDULE -----------------------------

9:00-9:30 Opening remarks

Session 1 - Analysis of Intelligent Textbooks 

9:30-9:55 An Analysis of Interactive Feature Use in Two Ebooks. Barbara Ericson

9:55-10:20 Visualisation Analysis for Exploring Prerequisite Relations in Textbooks. Samuele Passalacqua, Frosina Koceva, Chiara Alzetta, Ilaria Torre and Giovanni Adorni

10:20-10:45 Reading Mirror: Social Navigation and Social Comparison for Electronic Textbooks. Jordan Barria-Pineda, Peter Brusilovsky and Daqing He

10:45-11:00 Scaffolded, Scrutable Open Learner Model (SOLM) as a foundation for personalised e-textbooks. Judy Kay and Bob Kummerfeld

11:00-11:30 Coffee break

Session 2 - Building Intelligent Textbooks

11:30-11:55 An Overview of Recent Developments in Intelligent e-Textbooks and Reading Analytics. David Boulanger and Vivekanandan Kumar

11:55-12:20 Interactive and Personalized Activity eBooks for Learning to Read: The iRead case. Nick Deligiannis, Dionysis Panagiotopoulos, Panagiotis Patsilinakos, Chrysanthi Raftopoulou and Antonios Symvonis

12:20-12:45 PASTEL: Evidence-based learning engineering method to create intelligent online textbook at scale. Noboru Matsuda and Machi Shimmei

12:45-13:00 BBookX: Creating Semi-Automated Textbooks to Support Student Learning and Decrease Student Costs. Bart Pursel, Crystal Ramsay, Nesirag Dave, Chen Liang and C. Lee Giles

13:00-14:15 Lunch break

Session 3 

14:15-14:30 What’s a Textbook? Envisioning the 21st Century K-12 Text. Steven Ritter, Josh Fisher, Amy Lewis, Sandy Bartle Finocchi, Bob Hausmann and Stephen Fancsali

14:30-14:45 Student Modeling with Automatic Knowledge Component Extraction for Adaptive Textbooks. Khushboo Thaker, Peter Brusilovsky and Daqing He

14:45-15:00 Interlingua: linking textbooks across different languages. Isaac Alpizar Chacon and Sergey Sosnovsky

15:00-15:15 Tobbits Calculation Workbook: An Offline-to-Online Intelligent Textbook. Junchen Feng and Ke Li

15:15-15:30 Using a Causal Concept Map Based ITS to Add Intelligence to a Textbook for Human Anatomy. Ben Kluga, Manohar Sai Jasti, Virginia Naples and Reva Freedman

15:30-15:45 Using Programmed Instruction to Help Students Engage with eTextbook Content. Mostafa Mohammed, Susan Rodger and Clifford Shaffer

15:45-16:15 Closing discussions

<!--- -------------------------- ACCEPTED SUBMISSIONS -------------------------

Full papers/talks
* PASTEL: Evidence-based learning engineering method to create intelligent online textbook at scale, Noboru Matsuda and Machi Shimmei
* An Overview of Recent Developments in Intelligent e-Textbooks and Reading Analytics, David Boulanger and Vivekanandan Kumar
* Interactive and Personalized Activity eBooks for Learning to Read: The iRead case, Nick Deligiannis, Dionysis Panagiotopoulos, Panagiotis Patsilinakos, Chrysanthi Raftopoulou and Antonios Symvonis
* Visualisation Analysis for Exploring Prerequisite Relations in Textbooks, 	Samuele Passalacqua, Frosina Koceva, Chiara Alzetta, Ilaria Torre and Giovanni Adorni
* An Analysis of Interactive Feature Use in Two Ebooks, Barbara Ericson
* Reading Mirror: Social Navigation and Social Comparison for Electronic Textbooks, Jordan Barria-Pineda, Peter Brusilovsky and Daqing He

Short papers/talks
* Using Programmed Instruction to Help Students Engage with eTextbook Content, Mostafa Mohammed, Susan Rodger and Clifford Shaffer
* Using a Causal Concept Map Based ITS to Add Intelligence to a Textbook for Human Anatomy, Ben Kluga, Manohar Sai Jasti, Virginia Naples and Reva Freedman
* Interlingua: linking textbooks across different languages, Isaac Alpizar Chacon and Sergey Sosnovsky
* Tobbits Calculation Workbook: An Offline-to-Online Intelligent Textbook, Junchen Feng and Ke Li
* What’s a Textbook? Envisioning the 21st Century K-12 Text, Steven Ritter, Josh Fisher, Amy Lewis, Sandy Bartle Finocchi, Bob Hausmann and Stephen Fancsali
* BBookX: Creating Semi-Automated Textbooks to Support Student Learning and Decrease Student Costs, Bart Pursel, Crystal Ramsay, Nesirag Dave, Chen Liang and C. Lee Giles
* Student Modeling with Automatic Knowledge Component Extraction for Adaptive Textbooks, 	Khushboo Thaker, Peter Brusilovsky and Daqing He
* Scaffolded, Scrutable Open Learner Model (SOLM) as a foundation for personalised e-textbooks, Judy Kay and Bob Kummerfeld

--->

--------------------------- ORGANIZERS -----------------------------------

* Sergey Sosnovsky, Utrecht University
* Peter Brusilovsky, University of Pittsburgh
* Richard G. Baraniuk, Rice University 
* Rakesh Agrawal, Data Insights Laboratories
* Andrew S. Lan, University of Massachutsetts Amherst

An article in NewScientist on intelligent textbooks with contributions from our organizers:
[https://www.newscientist.com/article/mg22329832-600-digital-textbooks-adapt-to-your-level-as-you-learn/](https://www.newscientist.com/article/mg22329832-600-digital-textbooks-adapt-to-your-level-as-you-learn/)

--------------------------- PROGRAM COMMITTEE ----------------------------

Christopher	Brinton, Purdue University

Vinay	Chaudhri

Barbara	Ericson, University of Michigan

Brendan	Flanagan, Kyoto University

Kobi Gal, Ben Gurion University

Elena	Glassman, Harvard University

Phillip Grimaldi, OpenStax

Noboru	Matsuda, North Carolina State University

Roger	Nkambou, Université du Québec À Montréal

Xavier Ochoa, New York University

Hiroaki	Ogata, Kyoto University

Cliff	Shaffer, Virginia Tech

Atsushi Shimada, Kyushu University

Erin Walker, Arizona State University

Andrew Waters, OpenStax


